## A Meta-Joke

Raganwald suggests that he and Phred do a little pair programming on Tuesday night. "Sorry," Phred says, "Tuesday is Joke Supper Club, no can do." Raganwald gets excited. What is Joke Supper Club? Can he come along? Phred agrees to take him, on one condition: 

"Look," Phred explains, "Humour seems easy, but it's tough to get right, especially for an audience of semi-professional comedians. This is your first time at the club. Take it easy. Laugh at a few jokes, smile at the others, but under no circumstances should you attempt to tell a joke on your first night." Raganwald agrees, and they meet the others at a cheep & cheerful restaurant. 

There is much small talk and drinking over dinner, but no jokes. When the desserts and coffees arrive, the chairman calls the club to order. As the cognac circles the table, introductions are made and everyone welcomes Raganwald. 

As tradition dictates, the youngest member is called upon to tell the first joke. Clearing her throat dramatically, she looks about the table and murmurs softly, "167." To Raganwald's surprise, the members all get a chuckle out of this. The next member gets to his feet, beer stein in hand, and roars in his Scottish brogue, "Ay, 19!" The members practically fall off their chairs laughing.

Phred nudges Raganwald. "It's a little early for blue jokes, but Hamish has such a force of personality, he can get away with it." Raganwald stares blankly at Phred. 

"Oh, sorry," Phred stammers, "I forgot, you're new here! You must be confused. Well, it's quite simple. Over the years, the club has told practically every joke there is. So to save time, we have the jokes inscribed in the club book, one per page. We simply call out the page number of the joke we are telling, and everyone gets a laugh while saving time and effort. Shaggy Dog Stories used to kill an entire evening, now we sometimes get three in before the Port is served." 

Raganwald's eyes pop. What a great idea! He puts his hand up. "Wait!" Phred says, tugging at his sleeve, but Raganwald is too excited to stop. "Me next!" 

The chairman recognizes Raganwald. "It's not often a guest has a joke to share, excellent. Go ahead!" The table falls silent. Eyes peer at him. He suddenly feel sstage fright. "Go ahead," urges the chairman. A woman smiles at him. he summons up his courage.   
"6!" He exclaims. There is dead silence. A cough. Eyes look away. The chairman is polite. "Thank you. Now I believe Thompson and Thomson have a double policeman joke they have been woodshedding..." 

Raganwald is so embarrassed his cheeks are flaming red. "What went wrong?" Phred's eyes are like flint. "I told you to keep quite," he hisses. Raganwald is contrite. "Yes, ok, you were right. Satisfied? But what did I do wrong?"

Phred shrugs. "[Lbh cbbpurq gur chapu yvar](http://rot13.com/index.php?text=Lbh%20cbbpurq%20gur%20chapu%20yvar)."

[Permalink](http://raganwald.posterous.com/a-meta-joke)
