## An Open Letter To Socially "Conservative" Politicians

Sir/Madam: 

re: Your stand on the defence of "Traditional Marriage" 

You have a choice. 

You can drag your feet and let someone else stand up for equality. I do not blame anyone tempted to take this stand. Pioneers always end up with a lot of arrows in their backs, and politicians need to know when to fight sand when to employ prudence. 

Or you can stand up for equality. And most importantly, stand up for love. I mention "love," because although government is about laws and words like "equality," elections are about hearts and words like "love." Please think about lovers. Throughout history, there have been lovers whose union was opposed by their families, their societies, and their governments. They have had to endure shunning, discrimination, torments, and even been put to death for their love. 

But I ask you as someone who looks beyond this election to your legacy: Whenever this is put on as a play or a musical or a film, where do the audience's sympathies lie? Always with the lovers, that's where. No matter what your polls or assistants or pastors or lobbyists say about the mood of the country today, human nature is such that tomorrow, we will look back and cast the lovers as heroes and those that opposed them as villains. 

Is this to be your legacy? To play the role of the villain who opposed the course of true love? Or will you be the knight (or lady) gallant that rides to their defence, that puts a sword to the neck of the judiciary and demand that wedding bells ring out? Are those that oppose recognizing marriages between same-sex partners really the audience here? Or are they the townsfolk cast as the mob? 

I ask you to think of your legacy, to think of how your name will appear in the annals of history. It's possible you will be seen as a champion of tradition, and there are those who seek to gain from telling you so. But the truth is, history has put some very long odds on that. If you want to have a legacy, if you want to be remembered for generations as a champion of what's right, you need to support the lovers. 

It may seem difficult, but Act II is always difficult. When the curtain comes down after Act III, you will be hailed as a hero. 

Be that hero. Support true love. Support equality. And take your place in history by demanding that we legally recognize marriages between same-sex partners.

[Permalink](http://raganwald.posterous.com/an-open-letter-to-socially-conservative-polit)
