## A world without guns

I just read "[The Riddle of the Gun](http://www.samharris.org/blog/item/the-riddle-of-the-gun)," an op-ed by a Mr. Sam Harris, in which he says:

> Wouldn't any decent person wish for a world without guns? In my view, only someone who doesn't understand violence could wish for such a world. A world without guns is one in which the most aggressive men can do more or less anything they want. It is a world in which a man with a knife can rape and murder a woman in the presence of a dozen witnesses, and none will find the courage to intervene.

I can't really tell Americans what to do about this issue. It's far more complex than this sentence would suggest. For example, Canada isn't a country without guns, merely a country in which most _citizens_ don't have guns. Mr. Harris feels this is perilous, as someone can enter your home with intent to harm you, and the police cannot respond in time to stop them.

Of course they can't. I'm replying on things like the deterrence of catching and prosecuting criminals after the fact to keep crime down to a level where a gun in my home is statistically more dangerous to my family than the threat of an intruder in my neighbourhood in Toronto, Canada. Safety from criminals relies on a complex set of factors. Some people believe that things like our health care and lax drug laws relative to the UNited States are a part of this. I'm not an expert, I can only tell you I feel safe enough in Toronto.

But back to this one statement. So in this fictitious world without guns, anybody with some muscle can do whatever they want and few can oppose them. A man with a knife is nearly unstoppable. How frightening! But what about our world with guns? Are we to believe that muggers walk around armed with knives while our trusty author can whip out his pistol to thwart them?

No. In a world awash with guns, our mugger has his own gun. Furthermore, in a world awash with guns, our mugger sees each and every person as a potential vigilante, someone who could whip out a gun and shoot the mugger dead. Our mugger is armed and very, very afraid. His finger is on the trigger and he's ready to discharge his weapon at the slightest provocation real or imagined.

Here's a question: If you were to invade someone's home in the dead of night, when you creep past the "My other pickup also has a gun rack" bumper sticker in the garage, don't you draw your shotgun and check that it's loaded and ready? If you are tiptoeing down a hallway and a door opens, do you wait to see whether it's a little girl going to the bathroom? Or do you assume it's the author, armed and extremely dangerous?

Do you wait? Or do you fire?

I can't tell the author what to do to protect himself and his family in the world he actually inhabits. He lives in a world of guns. But I can tell him that his argument about a world with guns being safer than a world without guns is hogwash.

A gun is a sword, not a shield.

[Permalink](http://raganwald.posterous.com/a-world-without-guns)
