## This title is link bait

Dear Blogger: 

I noticed that you write super-catchy titles for your blog posts. Many   
of them end up on the front page of sites like Hacker News or Reddit,   
so you keep on doing it. I also notice that every time you do it,   
there are the inevitable complaints about your "link bait" titles. 

"Just describe the article," people say. Some are vindictive "Good   
post, but downvoted for the title." Circle jerks ensue "Agreed.   
Flagged for misleading title." 

I'm here to tell you: Keep doing that thing you do when you do what   
you do so well. Give your posts any title you want. Let those   
sanctimonious, preachy commenters gather at prayer circle and complain   
about the lack of sombre decorum on the Internet. 

My bottom line is that sites like Hacker News give people all the   
tools they need to deal with spam and malicious posts. There's a   
flagging option to catch posts that claim to be about optimizing   
JavaScript but are really about selling fake rolex watches. You flag   
the article, and a moderator has a look. 

The problem, of course, is that some readers don't like posts with   
titles like "CoffeeScript is not a language worth learning"   
([https://github.com/raganwald/homoiconic/blob/master/2011/12/jargon.md)](https://github.com/raganwald/homoiconic/blob/master/2011/12/jargon.md)).   
Of course, some do like the title, and many shrug. The issue is, if   
you flag a post that most people like, eventually you lose your   
flagging privileges. These preachy holier-than-thous know this, so   
instead of going along with the community, they climb on a soapbox and   
warn everyone about the decaying morality and Eternal September.   
Forgive me, but when someone complains about how link bait titles are   
turning Hacker News into Reddit, I hear "Dancing is Evil!" 

Sites like Hacker News also give you a little vote thingy, and   
everyone can decide for themselves if the article is worth reading. I   
personally ether complain about something or downvote it, but never   
both. Same with posts, either I post a critique or I vote against it,   
but never both. But hey, if they want to vote against a post (or fail   
to vote for it) AND complain, fine with me. 

But I'm writing to you the blogger. Choose your own title, it's your   
blog. Fine, there will be some communities that try for a   
faux-academic atmosphere where titles are little more than the   
proposition being debated. It's your blog, if you don't care about   
making #1 on those sites, that's your choice to make. 

And hey, most sites let the person submitting the post pick the title!   
So if someone else submits your post, let the preachy conservatives   
argue with him, it's not your fight. Your responsibility is to write   
your article with your voice. 

If you like catchy titles, or titles that seem funny to you (even if   
everyone else thinks the joke is lame), or titles that set up a   
strawman you demolish (Never write Ruby strings longer than   
twenty-three characters! Rails is a Ghetto! Why you should never,   
ever, ever rewrite code!), write your title with my blessing. 

p.s. Sorry about the title, but it seemed less link bait-y than   
"Opinions about blog titles are like _____."

UPDATE:: _Ironically, someone posted this to Hacker News where it scored some quick upvotes and shortly thereafter it was buried by moderation. I'm glad it was buried: Not everything of interest to a plurality of self-identifed hackers is Hacker News, and not evrything about Hacker News is Hacker News. Comments complaining about a post add noise with little value for those who wish to discuss a post. Likewise, posts discussing a site add noise with little value for those who wish to use the site. This doesn't mean I don't want to write such posts, just that I don't think such posts belong on the sitesthey mention._

[Permalink](http://raganwald.posterous.com/this-title-is-link-bait)
