## To my fellow Hacker News contributors

Hello all!

I just wanted to drop you a line and say that I'm upset about some of the things I read in Hacker News. (Narcissistic people are like this, we think that our feelings are way more interesting to other people than they actually are.) "Share my feelings" is often code for "criticize," but I hope you don't take it that way. Hacker News is a fine place composed of excellent contributors. Especially those who I disagree with and who disagree with me. How can I learn if I don't listen to people who disagree with what I think I already know?

So what feelings are these? Simply, I feel like things are moving in a tribal direction. To pick two recent examples, there was a Daring Fireball post a while back. Someone suggested DF be banned because it always ignited off-topic flame-fests. You know what? DF posts _do_ ignite off-topic flame-fests, where people spend a lot of time discussing the messenger and not the message. 

And today, someone posted something about iPads and Steve Jobs and Bill Gates, and the top comment was something about how link-bait always generates flame-fests, and indeed that sparked a long thread culminating in people calling other HN users hipsters and other insulting things. More disquieting are the messages of support for this comment suggesting that this runs contrary to the HN "groupthink."

These are isolated incidents, and the old saying is "The plural of anecdote is not data," but nevertheless we humans are pattern-matching machines, and my pattern-matcher is telling me that HN is moving towards having little pockets of people constantly at war with each other lobbing insults and generalizations and ad hominems, all of which become massively more popular than arguments about the underlying content of the posts.

I prefer posts that are about content, and especially not full of Ad Hominem abuse and fallacies. I found myself criticizing these posts as non-contributory, and guess what? I realized that I am not part of the solution, I'm part of the "problem." (Where by "problem," I mean that I am making myself feel worse for reading HN rather than suggesting that HN or its readers have a problem.)

I mean, if the problem is thread noise, how does adding comments complaining about noise lessen the noise? Duh. I suppose the correct answer is to down-arrow and move along, but there's another problem: People use down-arrows to disagree, so I suspect that when a comment comes along flaming Apple users, the person making the comment probably assumes that down votes are coming from Apple "fanboys" rather than from a guy who is tired of flame wars.

But here's the thing. It's a big world. Like a democracy, you have to go along with where everybody goes. You can speak up and suggest and cast your vote, but in the end we have to count the votes, pick a direction, and then pull together, that's how it works. Maybe I should just ignore the stuff I don't like. Maybe I should read it and learn from it instead of assuming it is non-contributory.

I don't know, but I do have this strong, emotional reaction and I wanted to try to respectfully explain how I feel without trying to pound a soap box and point my finger and say "Bad! Bad! Bad!" to people.

[Permalink](http://raganwald.posterous.com/to-my-fellow-hacker-news-contributors)
