## Ursidae et Crocodylidae

> In a fight between a Bear and a Crocodile, the terrain determines the outcome.

I recently wrote a little note about some of my values that I identify as little-s, highly local, libertarian socialist. As anyone with experience in the demonizing, black-and-white, you're in-favour-of-repealing-civil-liberties-or-you're-a-terrorist environment south of the 49th parallel could have told me, many folks ended up trotting out rather extreme definitions of "Socialism."

What I found really interesting about many of the comments was how often an entire argument would on an assumption that was slipped into things _en passant_. For example, consider this gem:

> How can you have a society without private property if you don't have a state to take the property away from people and to enslave them?---"lzw"

Let's skip the "enslave people" bit, the point that catches my eye is this: The sentence assumes that property exists and that whatever we call property is [excludable](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-excludable_good). But the statement doesn't say so outright, it merely assumes this is the case.

This assumption, of course, is crucial to the argument. If property exists and if it is an excludable good, then it's quite proper to ask how a society can exist without _private_ property. Does it simply not arise? is it prevented somehow? Is it redistributed somehow?

The obverse of the coin is that the notion of "private property" has no meaning if our alleged "property" is not excludable. If there is no way to exclude someone from using something I claim is "mine," I can't stop you from using it and the Socialist Bogeyman can't take it away from me.

But what if the basic assumption is wrong? What if whatever we are calling "property" property doesn't exist in this way? What if property isn't excludable?

This seems ridiculous. I'm typing this on a keyboard. I'm pretty sure that physical chattels like keyboards are excludable:  I can put my keyboard in my bag, I can lock it in my shed. And while computers seem plentiful, there's some element of scarcity, we do not dispose of our iPads when we've finished using them the way we might casually discard a newspaper after reading it.

But not everything behaves like an iPad. What about intangibles like bits? There is no scarcity to this episode of "Out With Dad:"

The entire episode can be represented as a very large number, and we can copy numbers or manufacture them out of thin air for free. Numbers are [non-rival](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rivalry_(economics)). Even if we write this number down on a physical piece of media, the atoms associated with the media are so plentiful as to not behave like property in the sense that the atoms composing a keyboard behaves like property.

Our assumptions about keyboards seem very shaky when we try to apply them to very large numbers representing things like images, movies, music, operating systems, or perhaps even nothing at all. Of course, there are people who willfully ignore this reality and use force to treat numbers like keyboards. The record companies and the movie companies and the software companies have been fighting for thirty-five years to have their cake and eat it too: They want bits to behave like bits some of the time, e.g. They don't have to pay by the bit when they press a DVD, merely pay for plastic. But they want bits to behave like rivalrous, excludable physical property when it comes time to sell the DVD.

What does this have to do with whether Socialists are violent, raving lunatics? I don't know, I'm not an expert on Socialism. But I do recognize that in order to make the argument quoted above, all the parties have to agree that there is such a thing as property and there is a sense in which property can be private. You can decide for yourself whether everything is property, or most things, or maybe just some things. I'm neither agreeing nor disagreeing, but I am pointing out that many arguments are entirely dependent on assumptions that not everybody shares.

> Big thing I've figured out recently: if somebody wants to play a fierce, competitive game of "Who's The Biggest Asshole?" with you, it's okay to let them win---Giles Bowkett, [Better Late Than Never](http://gilesbowkett.blogspot.com/2010/08/better-late-than-never.html)

If you want to "win" an argument, one strategy is to slip in an assumption that practically begs your argument. And of course, if you don't want to "lose" an argument, always examine the assumptions and see if they are beyond reproach. You can win pretty much any argument if you get to dictate the definitions.

But there's more to discussions than scoring cheap debating points. What value do we get from discussing an idea? Typiclaly, we win when we see an old thing in a new way. When we feel around the edges of an idea and realize something about it that we never knew before. When we stretch things to the point of absurdity. If there are only five fo something in the whole world, that thing is rare and you can be forgiven for making a lot of assumptions about how people would bahave with respect to it.

But what if it became so plentiful as to be ubiquitous and essentially non-rival? In just a few generations, we have gone from building the first digital computer to digital computers being ubiquitous and very nearly free. Looking at ENIAC and dreaming of iPad would have been a triumph of imagination.

Why don't we dare to question the assumption that things in our world have a natural scarcity? Why don't we dare to question the assumption that things in our world are excludable? I personally think many things in my world are rivalrous and excludable but perhaps I should "let go of my senses and trust my feelings."

Well let's see. The "natural" rivalrous nature and the "natural" excludability of atoms are mostly just limitations of our technology, aren't they? Keyboards and computers would be as cheap as toilet paper if we had a matter copier, anything made out of abundant raw materials would behave like bits. And even though we don't have matter copiers, arrangements of atoms are trending towards behaving like bits.

It's perfectly legal to "knock off" certain clothing designs, and clothing designs are not very rivalrous. But we treat certain logos and other identifying marks as property, even though it isn't excludable. We take abundant, non-scarce arrangements of atoms and try to create an artificial scarcity just because they embody a representation of a number.

At its heart, the question of private property in many cases isn't a question of property because many goods aren't really property. The question of property is a question of people pretending that that numbers are the same thing as physical objects. Or even more accurately, the question of property is really the question of people agreeing to limit their freedom of action and promise not do do something,

Gandhi [defied the British](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salt_Satyagraha) by using the Sun to extract salt from water and refusing to pay a tax for doing so. Salt is abundant and freely available to anyone with a pan and access to the Sea. Treating it like property that can be taxed is a proxy for society getting together and agreeing not to leave a pan of saltwater in the afternoon Sun.

Identifying hidden, unstated, or otherwise questionable (not necessarily wrong, but subject to question) assumptions leads to greater understanding. I may be wrong, but the understanding I've gleaned by questioning the nature of property in a world of abundance is the understanding that what we are really talking about is an elaborate charade (inflammatory word alert!) where we pretend something about things for what we assert is the greater good.

Of course, it may actually be for the greater good! But we should at least be honest and say that we are not talking about private property or property at all, we are talking about an elaborate network of agreements we call "rights." That's fine, but talking about rights is very different than talking about private property:

> How can you have a society without restrictions on freedom if you don't have a state to imprison people for treating numbers like physical objects that are rivalrous and excludable?

You can look at this question and still decide that we live in the best of all possible worlds. But it's a different question, and that's the value of questioning the hidden assumption.

p.s. _The words "rivalrous": and "excludable" were suggested by [David Welton](http://www.welton.it/davidw/). Score another point for open minded discussion, thanks!_

[Permalink](http://raganwald.posterous.com/bears-vs-crocodiles)
