## Whatever it is you want to say, just say it.

> If you find yourself beginning a comment with "_You're probably going to downvote this, but..._", please stop and edit that out. You have a point. Lead with it.

You may be familiar with social news sites like Hacker News and Reddit. Users can vote for stories they like, comment on those stories, and more crucially, vote for and against each others comments. Voting on comments is a highly imperfect way to shape discourse, mostly because there are two conflicting goals: The first is to moderate discussion and the second is to argue the topic at hand. Ideally, if you don't agree with someone you reply to their comment with a counter-argument disputing their point, and you down vote comments that need moderation, such as comments that are off-topic or comments that descend into Ad Hominem Abuse ("U R Fag"). In practice, users tend to down vote comments to punish each other, and people being people, disagreement ends up being "punished" with down votes. This is widely accepted as harmful, but difficult to stop.

It may be impossible to entirely stop people from down voting to express disagreement, but we can do much to discourage it, starting with this:  


If you find yourself beginning a comment with "_You're probably going to downvote this, but..._", please stop and edit that out. I admire your courage for stating an unpopular position, but comments starting with this phrase and hits variations need to go away. Meta-commentary makes people emotional. It actually encourages people to vote against articles for disagreement instead of for moderation. It encourages people to think of the social dynamics instead of the discussion. In short, it is bad behaviour and it encourages more bad behaviour.

Even if you don't care about the social dynamics of a web site, you still shouldn't use this phrase. If you want to change the world, you need to write effectively. Like all things, greatness begins at the beginning. You have a point. Lead with it.

Whatever it is you want to say, just say it.

If you don't want my advice, you can always follow Einstein's example. In 1931, the pamphlet _One Hundred Authors Against Einstein _was published by Philipp Lenard (1862--1947) and 99 others. As Einstein remarked in 1933, "If I were wrong, one would have been enough." Einstein didn't worry about how many people disagreed with him, just the quality of their disagreement. If your comment is sound, ignore the downvotes and save your energy for the rebuttals.

And if you do leave it in, one of the down votes you get will be mine. Not because I disagree with you, but because your comment is off-topic and subtracts from the quality of the discussion rather than adding to it.

([discuss](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2863811))

[Permalink](http://raganwald.posterous.com/youre-probably-going-to-downvote-this-but)
