## Whatever happened to Raganwald?

I used to have a blog called [Raganwald](http://weblog.raganwald.com/). I aped Joel Spolsky at first, and then I found a bit of my own voice. It really was a hotch potch. Sometimes it was about code, sometimes it was about software development, sometimes it was a rant. I decided to [give up blogging](http://weblog.raganwald.com/2008/07/brief-history-of-dangerous-ideas.html) in the Joel Spolsky king-of-all-media punditry sense, and some time thereafter I started [Homoiconic](http://github.com/raganwald/homoiconic). Homoiconic is code and words about code. Sometimes I falter and write words that are not about code. I'm trying to avoid that in general, and specifically I'm trying to avoid that on Homoiconic. So if I absolutely, positively must indulge my blogghorea, I'm currently using [Posterous](http://raganwald.posterous.com).

Am I still blogging? I don't think so. To me, a blog is a thing people subscribe to, it involves writing on a semi-regular schedule, it has a coherent look, it involves punditry. Homoiconic is deliberately none of these things. It's writing on the Internet, but it is not blogging.

Here's my thing: The best software has a simple, direct theme. It is not a floor wax, a dessert topping, and an oxydizing stain remover in one. Raganwald's only theme was that I happened to write it. Working towards a simpler, more direct theme is a win for me as a writer and a win for you as a reader. Think of Raganwald as my first Internet book and Homoiconic as my second. Nobody expects an author to keep releasing editions of their first book for the rest fo their career. Raganwald the book was finished, Homnoiconic the book is in progress, and one day it will also be finished.

My migration away from Raganwald has consequences. It may be harmful to my "brand," whatever that is. There used to be one place to read my writing. There was Google Juice. There was an RSS feed. That, I will say, doesn't trouble me. Most of my readers come from social software, be it Reddit, Dzone, Twitter, or Hacker News. Today, my most popular posts find their way into the wild, and it doesn't matter where they are hosted. Times have changed.

Raganwald was hosted on my servers. So I controlled the look, the feel, the links, everything. And you know what? That was a distraction to me as an author. I'm not in the design and layout business. It's straightforward to use Github and Jekyll to produce a good-looking blog with templates. I avoid this, as it will put me right back in the place where I'm fiddling with page layouts instead of writing code or words about code. I use Github's very basic Markdown support and stop right there. It's a pain to link to Amazon and get affiliate revenue, so I don't. It's a pain to have fancy wrap-around graphics, so I don't. I just write.

Posterous does the same thing for me. I write an email, I get a post. I can edit the post on line. I have no idea how to customize it beyond that, and I don't care. The salient difference is that if Posterous ever goes away, the only record of my posts will be the original emails. With Github, I have everything and every revision. It's Git! As a result, I use Posterous for things that can be thrown away. If I lose these words one day, I won't mourn. Is Posterous blogging? Maybe, I don't know. I use Posterous to avoid the temptation of diluting Homoiconic. To me, Posterous is a very public rubbish dump.

Anyhoo, that's what happened to Raganwald.

[Permalink](http://raganwald.posterous.com/whatever-happened-to-raganwald)
